Redox media (#13084)
qmk/qmk_firmware: keyboards/redox/media/readme.md

### The pro micro and how to flash it
To try out your pro micro and setup your environment to flash such a device I recommend following [this guide](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/pro-micro--fio-v3-hookup-guide/all). It will take you through the install and setup and provides a first easy to flash program so you can test your setup quickly.

Whenever you can't program one of the pro micros or the USB-COM port is not found on your computer, it most probably means that is is not in "bootloader mode". What you want to do is connect the GND and RST pin twice to reset the device and put it into bootloader mode (details [here](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/pro-micro--fio-v3-hookup-guide/troubleshooting-and-faq#ts-serial)).

### Compiling and flashing

Obviously start by [installing QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools?id=set-up-your-environment).

- Before flashing the firmware you should make sure that it compiles. Thus assuring that your QMK setup works fine and the keyboard and keymap files are correct:
```

> qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media_CH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media_ch
```

Obviously start by [installing QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools?id=set-up-your-environment).

Once you are comfortable flashing your Pro Micros and your setup works continue with the following steps:

- I've had greatest success with using the `EE_HANDS` setting and flashing the EEPROM to indentify left and right halves of the keyboard. To do this start with flashing the EEPROM of the 2 pro micros (make sure the COM port is the correct one and change left to right hand for other half) Reset the device: connect GND to RST twice, then you have 8 seconds to upload the new eep file with this command (from the qmk root). From the root of the QMK repo:
```
avrdude -c avr109 -p m32u4 -P /dev/tty.usbmodem14522301 -U eeprom:w:"./quantum/split_common/eeprom-lefthand.eep":a
```

- Next compile the firmware from the qmk repo root:
```
qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media-CH
```
The generated files are output to the `.build` directory. You'll want the `.hex` file.
- Finally flash the generated hex (make sure the COM port is the correct one) from the QMK root:
```
avrdude -p atmega32u4 -c avr109 -U flash:w:./.build/redox_media_media.hex:i -P /dev/tty.usbmodem14522301

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggetion
```

Also, `qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media-CH` will handle that.

Author: will handle what?
the avrdude upload still has to be done after the compile, no?

Reviewer 2: Sorry, `qmk flash` will, specifically. 

This will attempt to flash the board, based on it's bootloader. If it's using the caterina bootloader, it will attempt to use avrdude and the avr109 protocol automatically.  No need to explicitly include the instructions.

Author: updated the readme and mentioned the qmk flash command. i prefer keeping the explicit version in there as well. it helps understanding what actually happens and helps to debug in case...

- Volume knob
- Scroll wheel on the keyboard

For an in-depth report see [my page](https://shiftux.org/making_projects/keyboard.html) and a [video](https://youtu.be/Cwkf7HFcUkY) about the build process, design, printing, programing and assembly.

## IMAGE

### The build
I've used 2 [Sparkfun Pro Micros (5V)](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/12640) and a single hand master setup providing power and serial connection via a TRS jack.

### The pro micro and how to flash it
To try out your pro micro and setup your environment to flash such a device I recommend following [this guide](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/pro-micro--fio-v3-hookup-guide/all). It will take you through the install and setup and provides a first easy to flash program so you can test your setup quickly.

Whenever you can't program one of the pro micros or the USB-COM port is not found on your computer, it most probably means that is is not in "bootloader mode". What you want to do is connect the GND and RST pin twice to reset the device and put it into bootloader mode (details [here](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/pro-micro--fio-v3-hookup-guide/troubleshooting-and-faq#ts-serial)).

> 
> To find out how your serial port is called on your computer, you can find it with the following command:
> ```
> ll /dev | grep "tty\."
> ```
> Mine is called `/dev/tty.usbmodem14522301` for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Most of the details of flashing are abstracted away by the `qmk flash` command.

### Compiling and flashing

Obviously start by [installing QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools?id=set-up-your-environment).

- Before flashing the firmware you should make sure that it compiles. Thus assuring that your QMK setup works fine and the keyboard and keymap files are correct:
```

> qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media-CH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media_ch
```

```

> The generated files are output to the `.build` directory in the QMK root. You'll want the `.hex` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated `.hex` file is output to the QMK root.
```

Once you are comfortable flashing your Pro Micros and your setup works continue with the following steps:

- I've had the most success with using the `EE_HANDS` setting and flashing the EEPROM to the left and right halves of the keyboard respectively. To do this start with flashing the EEPROM of the 2 pro micros separately by setting the bootloader flag in the flash command (the pro micro uses the avrdude bootloader):
```

> qmk flash -kb redox/media -km media-CH -bl avrdude-split-left
> qmk flash -kb redox/media -km media-CH -bl avrdude-split-right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
qmk flash -kb redox/media -km media_ch -bl avrdude-split-left
qmk flash -kb redox/media -km media_ch -bl avrdude-split-right
```

```
Note that you need to reset the pro micro to set it to bootloader mode before you can flash it: connect GND to RST twice in quick succession (750ms), then you have 8 seconds to upload the new eep file.

> - For completeness this is the avrdude command with which you could manually do the flashing steps, you might want to use it for debugging. Make sure to set the correct port for flashing (`ll /dev | grep "tty\."`):
> ```
> avrdude -p atmega32u4 -c avr109 -U flash:w:./.build/redox_media_media.hex:i -P /dev/tty.usbmodem14522301
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: i'm a bit frustrated about the fact that you would not let things like this stand. 
after all understanding what you're doing is the way to learning and most of all also debugging your code / electronics...

Reviewer: This kind of thing is what the docs are for, as it is applicable to more than just this specific board. As such, you should only include information that is relevant to this board in the readme.

### Adapting the keyboard layout

> Copy the `keymaps/media-CH` folder to `keymaps/media-<your-layout>` and adapt the `keymap.c` file in there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the `keymaps/media_xg` folder to `keymaps/media_<your-layout>` and adapt the `keymap.c` file in there.
```

I recommend testing the key codes with the [QMK tester](https://config.qmk.fm/#/test) and then adapting the `keymap.c` file accordingly.

Finally compile your new layout from the QMK root with:
```

> qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media-<your-layout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
qmk compile -kb redox/media -km media_<your-layout>
```

To find out how your serial port is called on your computer, you can find it with the following command:
```
ll /dev | grep "tty\."
```
Mine is called `/dev/tty.usbmodem14522301` for example.

### Compiling and flashing

Obviously start by [installing QMK](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools?id=set-up-your-environment).

Once you are comfortable flashing your Pro Micros and your setup works continue with the following steps:

- I've had greatest success with using the `EE_HANDS` setting and flashing the EEPROM to indentify left and right halves of the keyboard. To do this start with flashing the EEPROM of the 2 pro micros (make sure the COM port is the correct one and change left to right hand for other half) Reset the device: connect GND to RST twice, then you have 8 seconds to upload the new eep file with this command (from the qmk root). From the root of the QMK repo:
```

> avrdude -c avr109 -p m32u4 -P /dev/tty.usbmodem14522301 -U eeprom:w:"./quantum/split_common/eeprom-lefthand.eep":a

Reviewer: There is no need to run `avrdude` directly; `qmk flash` can set handedness with `-bl avrdude-split-left` etc.
To avoid confusion and complexity I'd recommend removing all the references to avrdude here.
